### Software required
The following programs are needed to use the Star compiler.
1. Flex
2. Bison
3. A C++ compiler
4. Make
5. GCC
6. The Google Test Framework

### Install script
Run the get_depends.sh script to install all the dependencies needed for the compiler and for the compilers test framework.

### Tested
The compiler has been tested on a 5.10.16.3-microsoft-standard-WSL2 Linux kernel,
as well as on Ubuntu 20.04.5 LTS, by running the gtests and also compiling some example programs. 

The versions of the tools which were used during testing :
1. flex 2.6.4
2. bison 3.5.1
3. gcc and g++ 9.4
4. make 4.2.1
5. libgtest 1.10.0-2

### Language Reference
The compiler compiles source programs which are written in a toy language called Star. The reference for the Star language can be found the root directory, named language_reference_star.pdf. A couple of sample programs written in the Star language can be found in the root directory /star_examples.

### Compiling a Star program
To compile a Star program, the following command can be used:  
`make compiler; ./star_compiler test_file.star --d=star_output.s; gcc star_output.s; ./a.out;`  
This will compile the compiler, then feed the test_file.star to the compiled compiler.
The --d flag determines the location of the output Assembly, which in this case is a file named star_output.s in the same directory.
Afterwards the generated assembly is compiled with gcc, and finally the compiled assembly is executed.

`echo $?` can be used in bash after executing the compiled assembly to print the return value returned by the int start() function of the Star source file. Keep in mind that this value ranges from 0 - 255, but can be useful for checking the result of a simple calculation.

Other flags which can be supplied while compiling a program are -ast for printing the abstract syntax tree and -tac for printing the generated three-address code. If the --d flag is omitted, then the generated Assembly is placed in the /asm_out folder.


### Possible syntax errors
Keep in mind that all the Star language control flow statements begin with an uppercase character. Also, incrementing a variable like i++ is not currently supported by the compiler, therefore use i += 1 instead.

### Running the test framework
The test framework can be running the following command:   
`make gtest; ./run_gtest`  
This will compile the test framework and run the tests. The errors found in the front-end test files are emitted, to show what kind of errors are generated by the front-end given a certain Star input file.
